---
layout: post
title: Droid Wars - Problem 1
tagline: Application development Challenge.
visible: 0
category: Droid Wars
tags: [recruitments]
date: 2015-12-22 19:55
---

### **StarWars**

A long time ago in a galaxy far far away, the Rebel Alliance managed to defeat the Galactic Empire and end the tyranny of Sith. The Jedi battled with and gained victory over the dark side and restored balance to the force. While the galaxy is busy in celebrations, the whereabouts of Skywalker - the last Jedi, are unknown. The Sith cease to survive, yet there are followers who are keen to re-establish the dark side. It is now time for you, to choose your side - the Light Side or the Dark Side of the force. You need to create an app, which serves to **"Keep friends close, enemies closer !"**

The app, whichever side it serves, will have same functionality. It should be named **"Resistance"**, symbolizing the affiliations with the Rebel Alliance (Light side) or **"First Order"**, symbolizing the affiliations with the Empire (Dark Side). Your app should consist of :

 - **Main Screen**: It should consist of two buttons, "Add Warrior" and "Display Warriors". Clicking on "New Warrior" opens up a screen to create a new entry for a warrior and clicking on "Display Warriors" opens a list of details about warriors stored.
 
 - **Add Warrior**: This screen is displayed when the user clicks on "Add Warrior" button. It should display a form. Inclusion of these fields is mandatory:
  - Name of the warrior
  - Affiliation (Radio Buttons: Light Side or Dark Side)
  - Species (Select species from a drop down menu: Human, Mammalian, Reptilian, Avian, Craniopod, Droid, Humanoid)
  - Gender (Male, Female, Machine)
  - Last Spotted on (Date wise format)
  - Last known presence (Select planet from a drop down menu: Alderaan, Bespin, Coruscant, Dagobah, Endor, Geonosis, Hoth, Kamino, Mustafar, Naboo, Tatooine, Utapau, Yavin -- at least 7 planets)
  - "Save Details" button.
  
 - **Display Warriors**: This screen is displayed when the user clicks on "Display Warriors" button. It should display a list of warriors stored in the mobile so far, with each item of list showing basic details of the warrior. Clicking on any item will open up complete details of the warrior.
 - **Warrior Details**: This screen is displayed when the user clicks on any item from the list of warriors. It should display the complete information stored in the database about the warrior.
 
### **Bonus Points**

  - Elegant User Interface, particularly Material UI.
  - If there is a "Delete" button in "Warrior Details" screen to delete a particular record.
  - If cards in the list have a background colour Blue or Red according to the warrior being Jedi or Sith respectively.
  - If images of each warrior can be captured/ taken from gallery, and can be stored and displayed.
  - Imagine you communicate with your teammates through WhatsApp.
  - Introduce a new field "Contact number" in "Add Warrior" screen, and "Send Info" button in "Warrior Details", which sends the details of the current displayed warrior through WhatsApp.
  - Any other tweak or feature which adds to the utility of the app as per your creativity.


 
  